Now first of all let me show you the official docs,
you can always visit mongoosejs.com
and there you can dive into the full docs to learn everything about mongoose, all its details, all its
advanced features which we'll not cover in this course because this is not a mongoose course,
I just want to give you an introduction to mongoose here, so everything can be seen in great detail here
but that being said, I will walk you through all the core fundamentals in this course and in this module
of course and we'll also keep on using mongoose for the rest of this course
so we'll gradually use more features as we add more features to our application like authentication
and so on.
So this is how you can learn more about mongoose,
now to add it to our project, I quit my npm start process and then I can simply run npm install
--save mongoose, like that,
that is the name of the package.
Now this will download and add it to our project and then we are already ready to start using it
and the first thing we want to do when we start using it is that we want to connect to our database
and for that, we could use our database utility file here but actually mongoose does all of that utility
management and the management of that connection behind the scenes for us. What we can do is we can get
rid of the database.js file and we can go to the app.js file and in there, simply import mongoose.
So here let's import mongoose by requiring mongoose,
whoops, mongoose like this
and with mongoose imported, we can set up a connection. So down there where I used my own mongo connect,
I can use mongoose like this and then there, there is a connect method we can use. Now that connect method
takes the same url we used for connecting before,
so make sure you grab that url from your backend again and enter that here,
make sure you're using the right user which you set up for that and of course enter your password
and this will now connect to mongoose.
Then you get a promise here or you can call then at least and there you'll get the result of this
connection but most importantly, you know that at this point of time you are connected,
so here I then also want to bring up my node server or to be precise,
start listening for incoming requests.
I can also add a catch block here and log any potential error
I might be getting when trying to get connected.
So with this, we already have everything in place we need to connect and mongoose as I mentioned will
manage that one connection behind the scenes for us
so that in other places where we start using mongoose from the mongoose package, we use that same connection
we set up here, really convenient of course. And that already leads us to the next thing we have to do.
We have to move our code over to mongoose now and not to use the mongodb driver directly as we
are currently doing it.
So we'll again have to rewrite all our models but I hope you still see the advantage of this,
you first of all learn how to use the mongodb driver and you could of course stick to that and continue
using that if you wanted to
but now I will show you how you can move that over to mongoose to focus more on how your data should
look like and less on all the logic for interacting with the database.
Now to move over, again I do something I did before, I will comment out my different routes here in
the shop.js and in the admin.js file so that we can gradually comment them back in as we make
them work again.
Now with all routes commented out if I run npm start, I get an error of course that util database
was not found, in app.js
I certainly have to get rid of that import here where I do import something from that database
and the same is of course true for my models where I do also import something from the database.
Now the problem is if I comment that out, nothing will work here anymore
and therefore I will simply comment out everything in my models for the moment.
Now with that, it looks like we are connected because we don't get any error here,
this warning can be ignored and therefore we now are connected to our same mongodb server
but now by using the mongoose package. And with that set up, let's start working on all our models and all
our code to make it work with mongoose in the next lecture.